.\" Copyright Serge Hallyn <serue@us.ibm.com>
.\" This file may be copied under the conditions described
.\" in the LDP GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 1, September 1998
.\" that should have been distributed together with this file.
.\"

.TH DIGSIG 7 2005-12 "digsig"
.SH NAME
digsig \- Enforcement of signed ELF executables and binaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "digsig.init compile
.br
.BI "digsig.init start syspubkey.pub
.br
.BI "digsig.init stop
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page explains the
.B digsig
kernel module and supporting tools.
.PP
The
.B digsig
kernel module enforces digital signatures on ELF binaries and libraries. 
When digsig is loaded, it reads the system's public key. It uses that
public key to verify that an ELF file was signed with the matching
private key.
.PP
A public/private key pair is created using
.IR gpg (1).
ELF files are then signed with the generated private key using
.IR bsign (1).
The digsig module is compiled and started using
.IR digsig.init (1),
and the public key is provided to the kernel module when digsig is
started.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following set of commands create a key pair under the directory
/root/syskeys (which hopefully would be protected, ie using SELinux),
signs the system's ELF files using the private key, and starts digsig
using the public key.
.PP
The following command creates a new key pair:
.RS
.B gpg --gen-key --homedir=/root/syskeys
.RE
The public key can be exported for use with digsig using:
.RS
.B gpg --export --homedir=/root/syskeys >> /root/syskeys/syspubkey.pub
.RE
The following is an example of how
.IR bsign (1)
might be used to sign all ELF files on a filesystem:
.RS
.B bsign -s -P "--homedir=/root/syskeys" -v -l -i / -e /proc -e /dev
-e /boot -e /usr/X11R6/lib/modules
.RE
Digsig can be started using the command:
.RS
.B digsig.init start /root/syskeys/syspubkey.pub
.RE
Henceforth digsig will detect any changes to any signed binaries.
Depending upon the compilation flags used, unsigned ELF binaries
and libraries may or may not be loadable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR digsig.init (1),
.BR extract_sig (1),
.BR digsig (7)
